---
layout: post
title: "Version 2.3"
date: 2011-03-17
categories: news
author: "Ronald Ligteringen"
---

Version 2.3 of *DIPlib* and *DIPimage* has been released.
There is now only one version per platform.

For Linux the old libc is no longer supported (2.2 is the last version to support this).

Mac OS must be 10.6 or higher.

## Change list

- Changes to *DIPimage*

    - New functions:
        - `dipdrawpolygon` works the same way as `diproi`, but returns the coordinates of the selected region instead of a binary image. Additionally, the user can now, using the space bar, switch to a mode for moving the set points. This new function is useful, among other things, to create an input to `snakeminimize`.
        - `findmaxima`, `findminima` and `subpixlocation` can be used to determine the location of local extrema with sub-pixel accuracy.
        - `dpr` and `frc` compute the differential phase residuals and Fourier ring correlation, respectively. Both are similarity measures between images.
        - New overloaded function `dip_image/eig`.
        - New overloaded function `dip_image/hypot`.
        - New overloaded functions `dip_image/ismatrix`, `dip_image/isrow` and `dip_image/iscolumn`, to match new functions in MATLAB 7.11.
        - New overloaded functions `dip_image/ind2sub` and `dip_image/sub2ind`.
        - New overloaded function `dip_image/circshift` to shift an image by integer distances.
        - New overloaded function `dip_image/diag`.
        - New overloaded function `dip_image/unique`.
        - New function `slice_in`, to complement `slice_ex` (nee `ex_slice`) and `slice_op`. `slice_in` inserts a slice into an image, in the same way that `slice_ex` extracts a slice.

    - Changed functions:
        - `stretch` now supports color and tensor images.
        - `diproi` now uses `dipdrawpolygon` for the user interaction part.
        - New & Improved convolve: It now tries to decompose the kernel and compute the convolution in the spatial domain. Still uses the FT if the decomposition is not possible.
        - `dip_image/inv` now uses the `'LU'` method by default.
        - `dip_image/svd` will now not waste lots of memory when only one output argument is given.
        - `readtimeseries` is now more efficient with multi-plane TIFF files.
        - `fillholes` now has a 2nd input argument to specify connectivity.
        - `measure` now has a default connectivity of `Inf` rather than 1. This matches the default in `label`.
        - `cut` now has an additional, optional parameter, origin. `cropim` has been moved to the aliases directory, use `cut` instead.
        - `dip_image/find` and `dip_image/findcoord` now accept two additional parameters, mirroring the built-in MATLAB function `find`: you can now choose to find only the first or last `n` pixels.
        - `ex_slice` is now called `slice_ex`, the old name is still available in the aliases directory.
        - The color map used for the labeled image display is much better now. This also changes the output of overlay for labeled images, since that uses the same color map as the display.
        - The function `noise` can now also generate pink and Brownian noise.
        - The `readim` interface to `loci_tools.jar` is much more efficient. It only works with the latest version (5.0, currently labeled "Trunk build" at http://loci.wisc.edu/bio-formats/downloads).
        - New version 1.2.15 of the Java-based 5D image viewer.

    - Bug fixes:
        - Indexing into `dip_measurement` objects with very large ID values now works without running out of memory.
        - `dip_image/cat` now preserves ending singleton dimensions.
        - cut and extend now properly keep the origin in the middle of the image.

- Changes to *DIPlib*  
    (Some of these changes propagate to *DIPimage*)

    - New functions:
        - `dip_Canny()`, the famous Canny edge detector.
        - `dip_SubpixelMaxima()`, `dip_SubpixelMinima()` and `dip_SubpixelLocation()`, functions to determine location of extrema with sub-pixel accuracy.
        - `dip_ChainCodeGetRadius()` obtains some object parameters from its chain code: maximum and minimum radius, mean radius, and variance of radius. `dip_Measure()` uses this function by specifying the `dip_FeatureRadiusID()` measurement feature.
        - `dip_KuwaharaImproved()` and `dip_GeneralisedKuwaharaImproved()` do the same as `dip_Kuwahara()` and `dip_GeneralisedKuwahara()`, but add a threshold parameter to avoid shifting the kernel in flat regions of the image. This avoids creating false edges in flat regions due to noise.
        - `dip_RandomSeedWithClock()`, to initialise a `dip_Random` variable using the system clock.
        - `dip_GeneralConvolution()` implements a convolution for non-separable kernels in the spatial domain. Complements `dip_SeparableConvolution()` and `dip_ConvolveFT()`.
        - `dip_MapView()` and `dip_MirrorView()` do the same thing as `dip_Map()` and `dip_Mirror()`, but instead return a ROI on the original image, making no copy of the data.
        - `dip_ImageDoEdge()` (not documented).

    - Changed functions:
        - `dip_SingularValueDecomposition()` now can return only the singular values, saving lots of memory if you don't need the full decomposition.
        - Chain codes, represented in the `dip_ChainCode` object, now use less memory. Recompile any program that links with *DIPlib* and uses chain codes!
        - `dip_Kuwahara()` and `dip_GeneralisedKuwahara()` are now biased towards the middle of the filtering kernel, rather than the top left. This avoids shifts of regions in the output image in certain situations.
        - All filters that can use rectangular filtering windows now will accept even-sized windows (previously these would be rounded up to an odd size).
        - Mathematical morphology operations with a grey-value SE are now much faster.

    - Bug fixes:
        - Fixed memory leak in `dip_SelectValue()` and `dip_NotZero()`.
        - Fixed a bug with the boundary condition in the 1D version of `dip_BinaryPropagation()`.
        - `dip_ImageChainCode()` no longer starts the chain with a useless 0 code.
        - Fixed a bug in `dip_HartleyTransform()` that caused crashes or wrong output.

- Changes to dipIO  
(This change propagates to *DIPimage*)

    - Changed function:
        - `dipio_ImageReadTIFF()` now can read all image planes into a single 3D image (or 4D if there is color channels). Simply choose image plane `-1`.
