---
layout: post
title: "Version 2.5"
date: 2013-06-12
categories: news
author: "Ronald Ligteringen"
---

Version 2.5 of DIPlib and DIPimage has been released

<h3>Change list:</h3>

- Changes to DIPimage

    - New functions:

        - `hminima`, `hmaxima`.

    - Changed functions:

        - A new option makes the functions `ft` and `ift` use the MATLAB built-in FFTW library, rather than DIPlib. This is much faster in most cases. Write `dipsetpref('FFTtype','fftw')`.
        - `readtimeseries` now reads series much, much faster. Can now also read files with names composed of only digits.
        - `readim` now reads multiple images from one `.lif` file.
        - `noise`: Fixed issue with `'uniform'` noise and default parameters. Added blue noise.
        - It is now finally possible to combine the `'tight'` option and a size parameter in `diptruesize`.
        - `resample`, `rotation` and `rotation3d` now can use Lanczos interpolation. `'lanczos3'` is now the default interpolation method in these functions.
        - `rotation` and `rotation3d` now cast the input image to a float type for all interpolation methods except `'nn'`, `'zoh'` and `'linear'`. This is to avoid clipping behaviour that was usually reported as a bug. Binary images can now be rotated with the `'nn'` or `'zoh'` methods.
        - It is now possible to use multiple thresholds with the `'fixed'` method in `threshold`.
        - Converting a scalar value to a `dip_image` object no longer creates an `sfloat` image, the data type is always preserved.
        - `dip_add`, `dip_div`, `dip_mul` and `dip_sub` have been removed in favour of the new function `dip_arith`, which directly corresponds with a DIPlib function. An optional input argument allows to choose the data type of the output.

    - Bug fixes:

        - Fixed bug in `convolve` with 1D image and filter.
        - Function `psnr` was computing STD instead of MSE.
        - `img+[]` gave a DIPlib error.
        - `eig` gave errors for 3D tensors.

- Changes to DIPlib  
(These might or might not propagate to DIPimage)

    - New functions:

        - `dip_PutSubSpace()`

    - Changed functions:

        - Added nearest neighbour interpolation (zero order hold results in half a pixel shift!) and Lanczos interpolation.
        - Skews and rotations with cubic spline convolution are much faster now.
        - `dip_Reconstruction()` now allows binary input images.

    - Bug fixes:

        - Fixed bug that caused SegV when creating a rectangular pixel table with non-integer size.
        - Arithmetic with 0D images could give a SegV.

- Changes to dipIO  
(This propagates to DIPimage)

    - New functions:

        - `dipio_ImageReadColourSeries()` reads in a series of 2D images as a single 3D image.
