---
layout: post
title: "Version 2.7"
date: 2014-10-31
categories: news
author: "Ronald Ligteringen"
---

Version 2.7 of *DIPlib* and *DIPimage* has been released.

## Change list

- Changes to *DIPimage*

    - We have made some changes for compatibility with the new graphics system of MATLAB R2014b. Previous versions of *DIPimage* cannot be used with versions of MATLAB R2014b and newer, but this version of *DIPimage* does also work with older versions of MATLAB.

    - New functions:
        - There is a new option in the 'File' menu of the *DIPimage* GUI to record macros. All commands executed through the GUI will be saved to an M-file (MATLAB script). The macro can be executed simply by typing the file's name at the command prompt.
        - `countingframe` implements a counting frame: it determines which objects in the image to count (or measure) to avoid a bias due to objects partially in the image.
        - `xx1`, `yy1`, `zz1` and `ramp1` are one-dimensional versions of the corresponding functions `xx`, `yy`, `zz` and `ramp`. With the new broadcasting operations in *DIPimage* (singleton expansion), these can save a lot of memory. For example, `xx1(im)^2+yy1(im)^2` produces the same result as `xx(im)^2+yy(im)^2`, but is much faster and uses less memory.

    - Changed functions:
        - When saving a displayed image through the 'Save As...' menu option of the image display window, the default file format now is PNG.
        - `gaussianblob` has been rewritten to allow multiple blobs also in dimensionalities other than 2. The `sigma` parameter now can specify one sigma for each dimension and one sigma for each blob (this used to be: one sigma for each dimension if one blob was drawn, one sigma per blob if multiple blobs were drawn).
        - `clip` now works with tensor and color images.
        - The function `colorspace` has been rewritten. It is now much easier to add new color spaces.

    - Bug fixes:
        - `dipshow(N,img)` would create a new window if no window with handle `N` existed, but the new window's handle would not necessarily be `N`.
        - The `lut` function once again uses the data type of the look-up table as the data type of the output image. It now also preserves singleton dimensions.
        - `readtimeseries` now works well again when the files being read contain color images.
        - The `'background'` mode of `threshold` would fail in some situations.
        - When converting from a numeric array to a `dip_measurement` object, the `'axes'` and `'units'` elements were wrong.
        - Fixed documentation for functions `inner` and `outer`.

- Changes to *DIPlib*  
    (These might or might not propagate to *DIPimage*)

    - Bug fixes:
        - `dip_Clip()` did not work correctly for images with data type `dip_sint32`.
        - Some fixes to the documentation of `dip_FindShift()`.

- Changes to dipIO  
    (This propagates to *DIPimage*)

    - Bug fixes:
        - `dipio_ImageReadColourSeries()` did strange things when the files being read contained color images.
