---
layout: post
title: "Release 2.8"
date: 2016-05-18
categories: news
author: "Ronald Ligteringen"
---

Version 2.8 of *DIPlib* and *DIPimage* has been released.

## Change list

- Changes to *DIPimage*:

    - Changed function:
        - Simplified the internal structure of measure and related functions, using function handles. Some derived measurements that are computed outside of *DIPlib* now also set the `'axes'` and `'units'` properties.
        - `dipisosurface` produces better looking surfaces by adding an additional light behind the surface. It also has an additional input argument for the initial threshold.
        - `gaussianblob` is much faster.
        - `@dip_image/rotate` now also rotates 2D vector images.
        - When a `dip_image` is a single pixel, its value is displayed in a more useful way.
        - Indexing into `dip_image` objects is a little faster now, as are functions such as `imarsize`, `isvector`, and `istensor`.

    - Bug fixes:
        - The internal function `di_convertphysDims` now works correctly, and is used in more functions. It takes care of properly adjusting the physical dimensions of a pixel.
        - The window title of linked image displays did not update correctly in certain circumstances.
        - `resample` did not set the units for the physical dimensions of the output image.
        - `readim`: avoiding errors with wrong metadata while reading BioFormats (fix by Rainer Heintzmann).
        - `writeavi` was rewritten to work on newer MATLABs. `readavi` still does not work.

- Changes to *DIPlib*  
    (These might or might not propagate to *DIPimage*)

    - New functions:
        - `dip_Measure` has a new derived function: `dip_FeatureAspectRatioFeretID`.

    - Bug fixes:
        - `dip_BinaryPropagation` mixed up output dimensions under some circumstances.
