---
layout: post
title: "Release 3.0.0"
date: 2021-02-22
categories: news
author: "Cris Luengo"
---

After many years of hard work, we finally have a non-beta release for the *DIPlib 3* project.

This release has only a few relatively minor changes with respect to the last beta release
(3.0b9, from December). The largest change since then is in the documentation, which is now
no longer produced using *Doxygen*. Instead, we're using [*dox++*](https://crisluengo.github.io/doxpp/)
(follow the link for a justification to switching away from *Doxygen*). In any case, switching
documentation preparation system required some changes to the documentation sources (which are in
the C++ header files), and some links to documentation pages have likely broken.

---

## For use from Python

Install through [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/diplib/) using

    pip install diplib

We support Windows, macOS and Linux, and Python versions 3.7, 3.8 and 3.9. On Linux also 3.6 is
supported. If you use a different platform or a different version of Python, you will need to build
from source. This is not complicated. We have
[simple and clear instructions available](https://github.com/DIPlib/diplib/blob/master/INSTALL.md).

## For use from MATLAB

You need to build from source. This is not complicated. We have
[simple and clear instructions available](https://github.com/DIPlib/diplib/blob/master/INSTALL.md).
We don't yet have a simple way of generating the *DIPimage* distribution (MATLAB toolbox), hopefully
one day we will.

## For use from C++

Please build from source. This should be a lot easier for you than messing
with pre-compiled libraries and their linker compatibility issues.

[Changes in *DIPlib* as compared to version 2.9](/changelogs/diplib_3.0.0.html)  
[Changes in *DIPimage* as compared to version 2.9](/changelogs/dipimage_3.0.0.html)
