---
layout: post
title: "Release 3.3.0"
date: 2022-05-21
categories: news
author: "Cris Luengo"
---

*DIPlib* 3.3.0 was released today. It includes some new functionality, and some assorted
improvements and bug fixes.
Please see the [change log](/changelogs/diplib_3.3.0.html) for details.

We recommend that all users upgrade to the new release.

---

## For use from Python

Install through [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/diplib/) using

    pip install diplib

We support:

| OS                    | Python 3.6 | Python 3.7 | Python 3.8 | Python 3.9 | Python 3.10 |
|-----------------------|------------|------------|------------|------------|-------------|
| Windows               |            |     x      |     x      |     x      |     x       |
| Linux                 |     x      |     x      |     x      |     x      |     x       |
| macOS (Intel)         |            |     x      |     x      |     x      |     x       |
| macOS (Apple Silicon) |            |            |     x      |     x      |     x       |

All of these are 64-bit versions only. If you use a different platform, or a different version
of Python, you will need to build from source. This is not complicated. We have
[simple and clear instructions available](https://github.com/DIPlib/diplib/blob/master/INSTALL.md).

**Note that there is a change that could break your existing code**,
but this can be easily fixed. See the change log linked above before upgrading.

## For use from MATLAB

Get a *DIPimage* installer [on GitHub](https://github.com/DIPlib/diplib/releases).

If there is no installer for your platform or your version of MATLAB, you will need to build from source.
This is not complicated. We have
[simple and clear instructions available](https://github.com/DIPlib/diplib/blob/master/INSTALL.md).

## For use from C++

Please build from source. This should be a lot easier for you than messing
with pre-compiled libraries and their linker compatibility issues. We recommend that you use *CMake*
to build a project using *DIPlib*, either using the *DIPlib* repository as a sub-project, or following
[this example *CMake* file](https://github.com/DIPlib/diplib/blob/master/examples/independent_project/CMakeLists.txt).
If you don't want to use *CMake* for your project, then see
[here](https://github.com/DIPlib/diplib/blob/master/INSTALL.md#linking-against-the-library) for
instructions on which preprocessor macros to define.

Though there should not need to change any of your code to use the new version of library,
you will have to re-compile it, since some function signatures were changed in backwards-compatible ways.
