---
layout: post
title: "Release 3.4.3"
date: 2024-03-20
categories: news
author: "Cris Luengo"
---

*DIPlib* 3.4.3 was released today. It fixes some deployment issues and a bug.
Please see the [change log](/changelogs/diplib_3.4.3.html) for details.

We recommend that all users upgrade to the new release.

---

## For use from Python

Install through [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/diplib/) using

    pip install diplib

We support Python 3.8 through 3.12, on Windows (x86_64), Linux (x86_64) and macOS (x86_64 and aarch64).

All of these are 64-bit versions only. If you use a different platform, or a different version
of Python, you will need to build from source. This is not complicated. We have
[simple and clear instructions available](/diplib-docs/building_diplib.html).

## For use from MATLAB

We haven't created any pre-built installers for this version of DIPlib.
You will need to build from source. This is not complicated. We have
[simple and clear instructions available](/diplib-docs/building_diplib.html).

## For use from C++

Please build from source. This should be a lot easier for you than messing
with pre-compiled libraries and their linker compatibility issues. We recommend that you use *CMake*
to build a project using *DIPlib*, either using the *DIPlib* repository as a sub-project, or following
[this example *CMake* file](https://github.com/DIPlib/diplib/blob/master/examples/independent_project/CMakeLists.txt).
If you don't want to use *CMake* for your project, then see
[here](/diplib-docs/building_diplib.html#linking_diplib) for
instructions on which preprocessor macros to define.

Though there should be no need to change any of your code to use the new version of library,
you might have to re-compile it, since some header files have changed.
